---
title: Economy
---

# Money, and the Economy

Money in Helios is in the form of **Credits**, or **'Cr'**. Every Org has three primary sources of income:

+ ###### Regular Org operations

  An Org's regular operations cover things like services they provide, minor manufacturing concerns, income from subsidiaries, and so forth. This income is 'below the abstraction layer'; that is to say, it is not simulated in the game. Any regular profits derived from such ventures are either absorbed back into those ventures, or they go to cover the numerous minor costs and upkeep throughout the rest of the org.

+ ###### Individual events

  Sales of ships, big sales of kilotons of materials, seizures of assets, things like that that are motivated by the players, are covered by the system and will result in extra money for the org.

+ ###### Tax

  Each org controls some planets and moons in the Helios system, either directly, or through some arrangement with the local government. These planets pay direct tax to the Org, providing the bulk of an Org's available money. This tax is a proportion of the profit generated by each Province on each planet.

Each cycle, the process of money flowing in an out of the org is a follows:
1. Any costs that need to be paid as a direct result of Orders made occur
2. Income occurs from all sources
3. Any ongoing upkeep costs are paid

Initially, no orgs will have any upkeep costs to pay - all minor upkeep for ships, orbitals, and so forth, is covered by profit from Regular operations.

### Players

Each player has a personal income each cycle. At game start, this will be 2500cr/cycle. It is not specified where this money comes from; for some orgs this may represent a salary, or it may represent a legacy of your [Background](/character-creation/backgrounds). In some orgs (notably the Miner's Guild), the council do regular jobs in the org as well as serving on the council; it is up to you to decide where this money comes from.

Players may supplement this income with additional money from other sources; some [Enterprises](/character-creation/enterprises) provide income, orgs can give money to individuals, and individuals can bull and sell on the market just as orgs can.

### Uses of Money

Now, this might all sound very good, but what can money be spent on? Orgs build ships and orbitals primarily with materials, (though for some constructions money is required). Upkeep and wages are mostly covered under the abstraction layer, so what should an Org (or a player) be spending its money on?

There are three primary places to spend money:

##### The Floor

The floor, located on [First Fall](/planets/first-fall), is a massive open trading floor and market for Materials. Operated by the Miner's Guild, most materials mined in the asteroid belt are sold there, as well as other privately-mined materials. The Miner's Guild charge a small percentage of any goods sold by non-members there.

Bidding on lots is blind and anonymous to other bidders; at the end of a cycle, the highest bid on any lot is the winner, and payment transferred. Goods may be offered 'delivered' (indicating that the seller will ship them to a nominated location), or 'on the floor'; ownership transferring there and then, leaving the buyer to organise transport.

In recent years, the Floor has become increasingly virtual and most materials are offered 'delivered' - allowing the seller to deliver goods from a closer location, saving fuel and shipping time.

##### The Maze

The Maze is an extension of the interplanetary communications network nominally maintained by Fenris Systems. In practice, they have very little influence over it and primarily maintain the hardware - the Maze is fully distributed and not particularly stable... hence the name.

While raw materials are commonly bought and sold on The Floor, the Maze has listings for all other sorts of things that can be bought and sold. Most are below the abstraction layer; if you want to purchase fine art over the Maze, you don't need to worry about using system actions to do so.

However, some purchases are big enough to warrant simulation; for instance, ships are commonly advertised over the Maze.

##### Directly with individuals

Anything can be bought and sold directly between individuals. Although this cannot be done anonymously, use of agents is a common practice and no player is identifiable solely from their bank record. Orgs can sell things to individuals, and vice versa. Any type of negotiation, with PC or NPC, can include a cash element.

### Practical concerns

Credits are virtual. They cannot be stolen in transit, or counterfeited. Fenris Systems runs the banking service for the entire system, but much like the Maze, it is distributed and they themselves cannot doctor people's accounts. Financial crime, like embezzlement, is possible, but usually by redirecting money, overcharging, and similar.

When trades need to be made in physical (untrackable) goods, usually for nefarious purposes, precious metals or gems are normally used a barter.

!!!! I appreciate this might come across complex (particularly with respect to The Floor), but Org officials will usually be around to provide private assistance if non-financially-minded people want to do something with money and aren't sure how.
